---
id: configuring-a-self-hosted-solid-pod-server-3
blueprint: comment
title: 'Configuring a self-hosted Solid POD server - 3'
task: 'entry::configuring-a-self-hosted-solid-pod-server'
publication_date: '2019-12-26 20:16:53'
---

I have now completed the first version of [rireki](https://github.com/NoelDeMartin/rireki) and it's deployed in my server making daily backups of my data POD. There are many ideas I had for it, but I've kept [YAGNI](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/You_aren't_gonna_need_it) in mind and I just implemented the bare essentials (plus a bit more). I wrote some documentation, which I invite you to read if you want to learn about my approach to managing backups. I don't consider writing documentation YAGNI, given that it will also be useful for my future self.

I usually write down the ideas I have that I don't end up implementing, and this time I went a step further and added them as GitHub issues. I was hesitant on doing this for a couple of reasons. First, because I have the habit of judging the "quality" of a repository looking at the ratio of open/closed issues. And second, because I didn't want to depend on GitHub to keep this list. The code is not important because I have my local clone, but I would lose the issues if anything happens to the repository. But both reasons are actually unfounded. I need to stop judging repos like that, and this is a good way for people to see some ideas I have for the future. I have used the "enhancement" and "good first issue" labels to make explicit that these aren't bugs. And about trusting GitHub, I just stored a copy of the issues on [the wayback machine](https://web.archive.org/web/20191226192342/https://github.com/noeldemartin/rireki/issues), and that should take care of the problem.

Once the first version of rireki was completed, I proceeded to configure the backup on my server. I wasn't sure what files to include in the backup, and looking for existing issues I found [I wasn't the first one](https://github.com/solid/node-solid-server/issues/821) to ask that. In the end, it seems like `config` and `data` folders are the only important ones. I haven't tested restoring backups, but I'd consider that YAGNI given how unlikely it is that it will happen. Before you go thinking that I am being reckless, the backup is just a zip with [Turtle](<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Turtle_(syntax)>) files. So the data is not even tied up to the implementation of `node-solid-server`, it's just semantic data in its purest form. That's part of the beauty of Solid.

To end this task, I want to make a reflection on how long it took. I started it about a month and a half ago. Considering that this is a side project, and I've had Christmas and [starting a new job](https://moodle.org/) in between, it didn't took that long. I've made some rough estimations and I think I've dedicated about 60 hours. Included on this task is configuring my Solid data POD and implementing a backup cli tool, with deploying and all the back and forth in between. 60 hours is about a week and a half of full-time work, and for such fundamental milestones in the path I want to walk, it's great. However, real-time it's been a month and a half, meaning that I would only be able to do about 8 of these in a year. This certainly gives it a new perspective, and I'm thinking a lot about the concept of appetite I learned [reading Shape Up](https://noeldemartin.com/tasks/reading-shape-up-by-ryan-singer-basecamp). For this task, I'd say my appetite would have been alright because these were important things to do, but it's also true that my initial estimations were off. That's ok, estimations normally suck, specially the way I am approaching side projects which is with more focus on learning and enjoying than productivity. But again, only 8 a year of this magnitude (which I initially thought would be smaller). I will keep this in mind going forward, and I'm excited to start eating my own dog food with the [autonomous data](https://noeldemartin.github.io/autonomous-data/introduction.html) technology I have been building.
