---
id: implementing-a-recipes-manager-using-solid-9
blueprint: comment
title: 'Implementing a Recipes Manager using Solid - 9'
task: 'entry::implementing-a-recipes-manager-using-solid'
publication_date: '2021-08-14 17:39:18'
---

As I write this, I'm preparing my backpack to continue the [Camino de Santiago](https://caminoways.com/ways/northern-way-camino-del-norte) [where I left it last year](https://noeldemartin.com/tasks/housekeeping#comment-3), and turning my holidays mode ON.

So it's with a bittersweet note that I have to say I didn't finish any of the goals from my last update :(. But that's ok, and I thought I'd use this opportunity to talk (a little bit) about [Impostor Syndrome](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Impostor_syndrome). I've heard some people mention it in the last couple of weeks, and I want to share my thoughts on that. First of all, yes, I also suffer from it. I think everybody does (at least everyone in the tech industry). So when it happens to me, I try to see it as what it is: the manifestation of the ups and downs of a normal learning journey (one day you think you know everything, the next day you realize you knew nothing). But of course, the following thought crosses my mind: "what if that is just an excuse to avoid facing that I just suck?" Yes, it could be an excuse. But [I'm all for good placebos](https://play.acast.com/s/akimbo/dontfearplacebos). That's why, instead of being hard on myself, [I have systems in place](https://noeldemartin.com/blog/10-years-as-a-software-developer#6-use-systems-and-processes) to make sure that I'm doing a good job. And today, even though I am yet again late on my predictions... I'm fine with it :). I'll just recalibrate, reflect on what I did, and move on. I also realize that most of my anxiety is my own doing. Nobody is forcing me to work on these side-projects, and my livelihood doesn't even depend on it. Like Seneca said, [we suffer more often in imagination than in reality](https://en.wikisource.org/wiki/Moral_letters_to_Lucilius/Letter_13).

Anyways, that's enough of my ramblings. Here's what I have done since my last update.

Some days ago, [CSS v1.0.0](https://github.com/solid/community-server/releases/tag/v1.0.0) was released. I had been using it in my CI pipeline with Cypress, but I was cheating somewhat because I wasn't logging in. I am still doing unauthenticated requests in most tests, but thanks to some new additions in this release I was able to test authenticating with my app. And it turned out to be really useful, because I found a couple of things I was relying on that aren't part of the Solid spec (so I shouldn't use if I want my apps to work with most PODs). I have listed them and some more in [this github comment](https://github.com/solid/solidproject.org/issues/607#issuecomment-898913063) about migrating apps that work on NSS to work with CSS.

Other than that, what has taken most of my time have been some heavy refactors, as always. This offline-first/CRDTish approach is turning out to be more complicated than I thought, but I actually think it's good because it's pushing Soukai's boundaries. The design itself wasn't that complicated, but Soukai wasn't ready to handle it because there are some complex relationships. A Recipe has instructions, and each instruction has its own metadata + change history. So Soukai needs to handle a 3-levels nested `hasMany` relation in the same document. I think the library is becoming more robust, but it's also increasing in complexity, so we'll see where this takes me. I haven't really added anything to the scope, this was part of my initial vision, but I hadn't stress-tested it yet. It's also getting [a bit ridiculous](https://github.com/NoelDeMartin/soukai-solid/blob/2f752c01976def36fbdc4eadd8f95b666d230b63/src/models/relations/mixins/SolidHasRelation.ts) [on the TypeScript front](https://github.com/NoelDeMartin/soukai-solid/blob/2f752c01976def36fbdc4eadd8f95b666d230b63/src/models/relations/SolidHasManyRelation.ts), so I can see why some people don't like it and prefer writing plain JavaScript.

And that's basically what I've been up to. Since I haven't really finished what I wanted to do, and I'm going on holidays, I won't bother doing any planning for now. When I'm back, my idea is to finish all this relationship madness and then I'll start thinking about finally working on the UI. If anything, I would say using the Shape Up methodology is kind of working because I've already cut a lot of scope from my initial idea. Only that it isn't happening in a single cycle, I guess it's the drawback of working just one day a week on this.
