---
id: improving-the-solidos-frontend-10
blueprint: comment
title: 'Improving the SolidOS Frontend - 10'
task: 'entry::improving-the-solidos-frontend'
publication_date: '2026-07-20T11:00:00+02:00'
---

And so, the time has arrived for me to close this task. Tomorrow I'm leaving for holidays, and we just published an article in the SolidOS POD about [the 2 milestones I've been working on](https://solidos.solidcommunity.net/public/2026/NLnet%20Grant%20Milestone%203m%20and%203p.html). Make sure to check that out if you want a summary of my work. This update is going to be, as always, a more personal reflection.

I started working on this with a very clear goal, which is the title of the task: "improve the SolidOS frontend". And if I'm honest with myself, I don't think I've gotten even close to accomplishing it. In fact, if you try to run SolidOS locally today, you probably won't see much of a difference from 2 months ago. But the truth is not as grim as that statement makes it to be, because the work I've done has clearly moved SolidOS towards it; and I'm quite happy with it. It's just going to take a lot more time than I expected.

Now, let's backtrack a little. When I joined the project, I was offered the opportunity to work on [4 milestones](https://github.com/SolidOS/solidos/blob/dd07ebb8a14e064187d0926e6f1ad1c960d23254/NLNetFunding/NLnet%20-%20NEW%20-%20SolidOS%20grant%20plan.pdf) (3m, 3n, 3o and 3p). The clear starting point was 3p, which was to create the components library. Also, it doesn't mention it explicitly in that document, but one of the points of doing that was to create a Design System. I've worked on Design Systems before, and you could say I've created some myself for my apps. So I thought it was just a matter of extracting existing code and "cleaning things up". However, that seemingly small task turned into a complete rewrite of the very foundations of the SolidOS stack 😅. I've addressed some of the reasons for that in the milestones article, and I also mentioned it in [one of my first reviews of the project](https://github.com/SolidOS/solid-ui/pull/744#issuecomment-4421683714). TLDR, there was very little consistency between UI authoring styles and we needed to come up with _the one true way_. Which ended up being Web Components build with Lit. And then, I learned about the misery of working with Web Components 😞.

I won't delve too much into that, because I've already mentioned it in these notes and [in various Matrix channels](https://matrix.to/#/!ixrMhnRBqvbusUMvCK:matrix.org/$VD0FsYUMO3bP5LJNDzIaChas0uWCNg2-OvA40GMx8AM?via=matrix.org&via=gitter.im&via=attendees.fosdem.org). Basically, what should have been barely a week of work to get basic components like inputs, buttons, and dialogs going, turned into almost ~3 weeks of struggle. Some issues are even still up in the air, like [the a11y feedback we requested](https://github.com/SolidOS/solid-ui/issues/773#issuecomment-4668186975). Still, I wouldn't say it was the wrong decision given the requirements of the project. And the flexibility of Web Components has already paid off in a couple of ways. But it did mean that I spent most of my time in the project working on the fundamentals, without ever getting a chance to work much on the final UI.

Something else that slowed things down was accidental complication, which I've also alluded to in the past. Unfortunately, that is still an issue and I'm afraid it's not going away anytime soon. One of the changes I did in order to introduce the new Web Components and [fix some build issues](https://github.com/SolidOS/solidos/issues/300) was to migrate the tooling to Vite, and rethink the bundling process. This could also have been done in a week, but the fact that SolidOS consists of multiple "independent" repositories made things a lot worse. In fact, even today, most repositories are still using Webpack and not bundling their code correctly. If I could snap my fingers and solve a single issue in the SolidOS project, it would be to migrate it to a monorepo.

Fortunately, in the last few weeks I was able to migrate some real UI and do [some real improvements](https://github.com/SolidOS/solid-ui/issues/832). But there is still a lot more work to do.

Which takes us to today. Regardless of whether I continue working on the project or not, I'm closing this task because the future is uncertain (and it's nice to close a task for once!). We're still waiting to hear back from NLNet to know if there'll be a second round of funding. But also, I'm not sure if I want to continue working _on this capacity_. I have enjoyed the work, and I really like being able to contribute to SolidOS, which is such an important project for the Solid ecosystem. But the truth is that I'm a bit taken aback with all the accidental complication (it reminds me too much of [the reason why I left Moodle](https://noeldemartin.com/blog/the-end-of-the-chapter#work)), and I'm not super happy with this model of funding based on grants. If it weren't for "the milestones that have been approved for the grant", I may have focused my efforts somewhere else; and maybe I could have influenced the real UX. Not to mention the precarity of my livelihood depending on whether we're awarded a grant or not.

So yeah, I don't know how much involved I'll be in the future. But I'm sure I'll be involved in some way, like I had been before officially joining the project.

Not to end in a sour note, let me reiterate that I'm happy with the results and I still like the project. This update may seem too negative, but that's because I preferred to leave the positive notes for the public announcement, and use this quieter place to share the rest of my thoughts. But overall, I would say it's been a good experience!
