---
id: making-a-web-application-framework-16
blueprint: comment
title: 'Making a Web Application Framework - 16'
task: 'entry::making-a-web-application-framework'
publication_date: '2026-07-17T15:00:00+02:00'
---

It's been a few months since I updated this task _again_, as I have been busy with [other](https://noeldemartin.com/tasks/improving-the-solidos-frontend) [things](https://noeldemartin.com/tasks/raising-an-agent). But that doesn't mean I've neglected this completely, and today I have a pretty juicy update :D. Let's get into it!

As a recap, I recently started a full rewrite of Soukai because I was unable to implement a Shows Tracker with decent performance. And I'm happy to report that I consider that challenge complete 🥳. Just now, I finished migrating all my shows tracking data from [TViso backups](https://x.com/tviso_es/status/1153273396689547264) and markdown files to my Solid POD.

I have a total of 417 shows, which accounting for all episodes and seasons translates to 12,793 documents taking up 11.6MB 🤯. Now, is that a lot, or is it small? Well, it certainly isn't a lot of data in terms of storage space. But if you've been using Solid, you'll know that this is not trivial to work with. Once again, this app wouldn't be possible without a local-first architecture. However, this time making it local-first wasn't enough, and I had to come up with a couple more tricks to make it performant.

In Media Kraken's case, it seems to work fine if I just load everything in memory (2,992 movies currently). But if I try to load all 417 shows with all their seasons and episodes... yeah, the app slows down to a crawl (as you would expect!). Then again, I _need_ to load all the data, because the main feature of the app's home screen is to display active shows that have unwatched episodes. That could also be achieved by storing the count of pending episodes in the show document itself... but then, I wouldn't have a single source of truth, and when a different app changes the watched status of an episode, this would break down. So, how do you think I solved this? The answer is that I drew inspiration from [Vue's reactivity system](https://vuejs.org/guide/essentials/reactivity-fundamentals.html), and implemented a new concept called "computed attributes" in Soukai :D. Basically, models can declare dynamic properties that are computed using relationships, and those are only loaded when the property needs to be recomputed. Thanks to the refactor, the sync engine is aware of the mapping between documents and models, so whenever anything changes in the app or during sync, I can invalidate all the affected values and recompute them. And in order to compute each, I only need to load the seasons and episodes of a single show, which can be unloaded after the operation. It was a bit of a long shot when I started working on it, but now that I've done it I'm really happy how it turned out. I'm specially proud of this solution because it is hyper-specific to Solid and Soukai, and I don't think this would be an easy problem to solve with any other stack.

Something else I struggled with was the sync performance. You may have guessed it already, but in case you haven't the way data is stored in the POD is with a container per show, which in turn has one children container per season and a document per episode. The reason I ended up with this structure is that storing everything in one document wasn't feasible. For example, One Piece has 1,170 episodes, and that would mean that every time I want to mark a single episode as watched I'd need to pull down the entire document and modify it. Not only that, but I already mentioned the issues with loading seasons and episodes. If I had everything in a single document, even if the relations aren't loaded the entire Turtle document would have to be parsed and processed, which would also cause a lot of headaches.

But this decision of using nested containers came in with a very important trade-off. The main mechanism I have been using to optimize syncs has been the `purl:modified` triple returned from the container description. Whenever the last modified date in the POD matches the last known date in my local storage, I can skip pulling a document completely. In a situation where nothing has changed, this means I only need to make a single request for the root `shows/` container and skip everything else. But now that we have nested containers, I would also need to fetch every single container for every single show 😱. Unfortunately, this isn't something that can be solved with the standard features of the Solid Protocol :(. So I resorted to extending it! Which isn't great, because people using PODs that don't support these additional features will be stuck fetching every container in each update... Then again, I'm not sure how many people are going to have hundreds of shows when they start using the app.

In case you're curious what this extension entails, it's actually very simple. I have defined a new [solid-extra](https://vocab.noeldemartin.com/solid-extra) ontology with a single property: `solid-extra:deepLastModified `. In [my production POD](https://github.com/noeldemartin/lss), I'm taking advantage of the fact that it runs on top of NextCloud to get the "last modified date" of a container that is affected by changing nested documents. If this triple is present, I can skip nested containers. If it isn't, the app still works but it has to read all the containers. I raised this issue in the [Matrix specification channel](https://matrix.to/#/!QxZtVBYQfMeMTnespj:gitter.im/$KDuA7rGWi7w2cNnd8JeYh88RvSNzvyXCDdnBOddrOK4?via=gitter.im&via=matrix.org&via=chat.semantic.works), which culminated in [a new feature request](https://github.com/solid/specification/issues/797) in the spec. But if I'm completely honest, [I don't have any hopes](https://noeldemartin.com/blog/why-solid#the-spec-isnt-evolving) that is is going to be solved at the protocol level anytime soon 🤷 (it's been 5 years since [I raised a similar issue for plain files](https://github.com/solid/specification/issues/227#issuecomment-773945439) and I'm still waiting, so...).

It has taken me a lot of time and failed attempts, but I've finally cracked the Shows Tracker dilemma :D. The only real issue I still haven't solved is the initial sync, which took in my phone ~30 minutes to complete. And sure, that isn't great, but considering that I only have to do this once per device and subsequent syncs are pretty much instant, it ain't bad :).

So, what now?

I'm going on holidays next week, and when I get back I'll have to decide how to take this to "production". I'm already using it in production myself, and you can also [give it a try](https://noeldemartin.github.io/shows-tracker/). But let me warn you, the UX is _not good_ and I don't consider this anything more than a prototype (no guarantees of stability, etc.). The logical next step is to make this app for real... But actually, this would be the 4th iteration of the Shows Tracker and I'm tired of that 😅. Instead, I'm currently thinking... that it's time to migrate Media Kraken to Aerogel 😱. Yes, you read that right. In theory, it shouldn't take me "that long" because I'm pretty sure I don't have to solve any novel technical challenges, and I'm pretty happy with Media Kraken's UI so I won't be rebuilding it from scratch (like I did with Focus). But I'm already spread thin with all my other tasks and whatnot, so I'm not sure how long it would really take me. I'll use the holidays to let the idea simmer, and by the time summer is over I'll see how to proceed.
