---
id: raising-an-agent-2
blueprint: comment
title: 'Raising an Agent - 2'
task: 'entry::raising-an-agent'
publication_date: '2026-04-16T20:58:00+02:00'
---

For the last couple of weeks, I've taken a detour from the main focus of this task (working on Ànima). But I thought I'd share an update anyways, because it's still related to my end goal (making my own AI toolkit). TLDR, today's update is all about how I'm using AI for coding. Feel free to skip if you just care about Ànima updates :).

So, last month I watched [Taylor's Laracon EU presentation](https://www.youtube.com/live/cucIWpAenro?si=Wc9FedEXk4NRFuJ2&t=28719). He talked through Laravel's AI philosophy, the tooling they've been working on, and the upcoming avalanche of non-developers into the Laravel ecosystem. As always, the presentation was awesome and it inspired me a lot. In particular, he did a demo at the end that orchestrates all the pieces in the Laravel ecosystem (Cloud, Nightwatch, Boost, etc.) to detect and fix a bug without human interaction (besides [answering a phone call from his Openclaw](https://x.com/laravelphp/status/2029618382774096260) :O). Now, how much of that demo was staged or over-hyped, I don't know. But the fact remains that I liked it, and it is a goal worth shooting for in my own work.

In order to learn more about the reality of AI in Laravel, I decided to start working on a new project. Initially, it was going to be a throw-away weekend idea. But it's going so well, that I'm probably going to release it as a real app! However, it has nothing to do with Solid, and it certainly doesn't live up to [my software ideals](https://noeldemartin.com/blog/software-ideals-in-the-age-of-ai). But that doesn't mean it's not useful :). In short, it's a "podcasts enhancer" (name TBD). I listen to a lot of podcasts, but some of them ramble too much. Like the proverbial book that should have been a blog post. So this application lets you augment RSS feeds. You give it a feed, and it sends it back with transcriptions, summaries, and chapter timestamps. I have already been using it myself in production, and it works! If this sounds like something you would like to use, let me know. The live version is going to be invite-only for now, given that this requires a real server-side and cannot be hosted as a simple PWA.

Anyhow, that experience taught me a lot. Not only is Laravel delightful to use as a developer, it also make AI a lot better. This reinforces my opinion that, if I'm going to succeed as a developer and in creating my own AI toolkit, the guardrails and the environment are probably the most important piece (which is great news for [all the other work I've been doing](https://noeldemartin.com/tasks/making-a-web-application-framework)!). The frontend part isn't as nice, though. But for this particular app, that's the least important part and it's good enough.

Reflecting on how I've been working these days, I came up with 4 levels of software development:

1. **Caveman Programming**: This is what I've been doing most of my life, which is coding without AI at all. But it's sadly going to disappear, and nowadays I only do this when I'm trying to learn something (such as my recent experiments [learning React](https://noeldemartin.com/tasks/learning-react)). I do miss the craftsmanship and flow that went into it, but at this point I can't justify doing this anymore. And the next level is often as satisfying anyways.

2. **AI-assisted Programming**: This is what I'm spending most of my time doing. Basically, I use a code editor with inline suggestions (Cursor) and the built-in chat for quick tasks. I still "write" most of the code. Some people would also call this Caveman Programming, but personally I don't think we're at a point where we can stop writing code yet. Or at least, not in the projects I'm working on (more on that later). To be honest, I'm grateful that's the case, because I really like writing code. And the day I stop doing it will be a sad day. But it is definitely coming.

3. **Vibe-engineering**: This is how I've been building the podcasts enhancer, and other apps without as much success. I am aware of the codebase and architecture, and I do review every single line of code. But I don't write any of it. The reason I'm not doing this in all my projects is that I'm not happy with the code produced by LLMs. I know a lot of people will disagree with that, but from my own experience I have seen that AI produces wildly different results depending on the environment. With a fresh new Laravel project, and Laravel's opinionated patterns, they are pretty good. But in older projects, or in codebases that aren't well architected, AI still sucks. And I'm not saying this for lack of trying, I have tested this approach countless times for the last few months, but most of the time I still think I'm faster writing it myself. In some projects, though, I am slowly transitioning into this (such as [the Soukai rewrite](https://noeldemartin.com/tasks/making-a-web-application-framework#comment-16)). I am convinced that with the right guardrails, skills, and environment, this will be the way to go. So I'm probably going to be doing a lot more of this in the future.

4. **Vibe-coding**: And finally, what everybody is talking about, vibe coding. At this level, I don't even look at the code. But I haven't been as successful here. I built a couple of apps that were decent enough to be useful, like an [IndexedDB inspector](https://github.com/NoelDeMartin/indexeddb-inspector) or a [Manga Reader](https://github.com/noeldemartin/manga-reader). But we're still very far from making this a viable option to build real software. Still, it is the goal I'll am for if I ever give Ànima this capability.

There are also other considerations to keep in mind, such as which models to use. Though to be honest, I don't see a big difference between all the frontier models. Sadly, local models aren't there yet, but I'm sure some day they will. Interestingly, what seems to have the greatest impact on the outcome is the harness. For example, I pay for an AI Pro Google subscription, and I've been testing Gemini 3.1 in different environments. Surprisingly, the worst one seems to be their official Gemini CLI 😅. It often takes ages to complete tasks, whereas using [OpenCode](https://opencode.ai/) results are much faster. Ànima is, at its core, an AI harness. So it'll be interesting to see how far I can take it.

Finally, I have experimented with some techniques such as spec-driven development, ralph loops, or cloud agents. But most of those didn't turn out great, or weren't significantly better than just telling OpenCode to build something small but significant. Although I do use plan mode sometimes.

And that's about it! I may be forgetting some things, but in general that's a pretty good summary of my current state of AI. Is it going to change drastically in the next few months? Honestly, I don't think so. But it will definitely change in the upcoming years. Hopefully, by the time I'm done with this task, I'll be able to do my best work using my favourite stack, my own tooling, and even local models.
