---
id: raising-an-agent-3
blueprint: comment
title: 'Raising an Agent - 3'
task: 'entry::raising-an-agent'
publication_date: '2026-05-31T09:58:00+02:00'
---

A couple of weeks ago I finished working on my Podcast Enhancer, you can see it live at [podcast-enhancer.noeldemartin.com](https://podcast-enhancer.noeldemartin.com/). I have been using it every day since, and I was so pleased with the result, that I added it to my [/projects](/projects) page!

This update is, once again, not about Ànima. But I learned many things that are going to be very important for Ànima, so consider this a final report on this side-quest. This was my first app 99% written with AI (yeah, I'm still not at 100%, sorry xD). How did it go?

For the backend part, I'm _very_ surprised with the results, and I will probably keep working like this _under similar circumstances_. But that's an important nuance. As I mentioned in my last update, it seems like the environment and guardrails are the most important part when working with AI (not so much the models). Turns out, a brand new Laravel app is a great environment for that :). I don't know if it's just [Laravel Boost](https://laravel.com/ai/boost), or [Laravel's brilliant design](https://x.com/taylorotwell/status/2009706915543298337), but the code written by LLMs is very similar to what I would write. Of course, I still have to ask for corrections and iterate on some things. But still, I'm ok with the final result.

But the frontend is a different story. I decided to build it using Vue, and the default modus operandi for LLMs seems to be building a single component for each page and keep bloating it 😱. In the end, I had to do some manual work to lay out the foundations, and be very explicit about which components to build for each feature. I also started using Storybook a lot (you can also [see it online](https://noeldemartin.github.io/podcast-enhancer/)), which is nice because this is probably the first project where I've used it this thoroughly :). After some more groundwork, I'm also ok with the final result. But I'm not completely sure this was faster than doing it by hand... The design is not that complicated (I made it using [Google Stitch](https://stitch.withgoogle.com/) for inspiration), and it rarely got things right on the first try.

However, maybe we can attribute that to the fact that I'm still learning how to use AI. In this process, I have created [noeldemartin/ai](https://github.com/noelDeMartin/ai), which is the repository where I'm going to curate my AI skills, commands, and guidelines. One of the reasons to create my own repository is that I'm a bit confused about the nomenclature. Most people talking online seems to call everything "skills", but then when you start using different LLMs, there are different ways to add capabilities: commands, rules, skills, etc. And every model provider calls them differently. In this repository, I've created my own cohesive nomenclature, and some scripts to install them in different AI models. Maybe the most interesting is the [commands folder](https://github.com/NoelDeMartin/ai/tree/main/corpus/commands). This is the one I've used to create invocable slash commands, which means that I call these explicitly (instead of the AI using them whenever it feels like it). Some of the more useful have been `/ui` and `/cleanup` (also, special shoutout to [Playwriter](https://github.com/remorses/playwriter), which made working with UI a lot better).

And this setup came in handy, because just in the process of making this app I switched tools 3 times! In my last update, I was using OpenCode, but unfortunately it started to degrade with Gemini :/. I'm still not sure why, because I haven't read any official announcements, but I routinely got "out of capacity" errors when using Gemini in OpenCode, but it worked perfectly fine in Gemini CLI. So that's what I've been using most of the time... Until Google announced last week that [Gemini CLI is dead](https://developers.googleblog.com/an-important-update-transitioning-gemini-cli-to-antigravity-cli/), and we should all switch to Antigravity CLI 🤷. Honestly, I don't care that much about any of this at this point. As long as I can configure my own commands, I'll be ok. By the way, I did try Claude Code, and I can't say I was impressed. Sure, it worked fine, but compared to my annual Google AI Pro subscription, it's super expensive and it's not that much better. TLDR, I'll be keeping my work model agnostic :).

Finally, now that I've deployed all of this and I'm "done" with the app, I have to highlight how awesome Laravel's ecosystem has been to deploy and serve my app, not just create it. I'm hosting this in [Laravel Cloud](https://cloud.laravel.com/), and it really is one of the best managed platforms I've used. Plus, with all the hibernation and spending limits, it's not even that expensive! The built-in logs and observability are pretty good, but it gets a lot better with [Nightwatch](https://nightwatch.laravel.com/). All of this combined with the [Cloud `tinker` command](https://cloud.laravel.com/docs/api/cli#tinker), makes managing an app in production as easy as the one running in my machine.

Will I be able to achieve a similar story for my work with Solid? We'll see.
